# How to setup Debugging Node.js C++ Add-on on Windows with Visual Studio 2017

This is a succinct step-by-step guide to setting up a debugging environment for Node.js C++ Addons. 

It is based on [this great article](https://computer-vision-talks.com/how-to-debug-nodejs-addons-in-visual-studio/) which goes into a lot more detail.

## 1. Build Node.js with Debug symbols enabled

**NOTE:** You'll need an archive utility that can handle `gzip` and `tar` extensions. I used [7-Zip](http://www.7-zip.org/download.html)

### 1.1 Download Node.js source tarball
- Go to [the Node.js downloads page](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) and click the `Source Code` link
**OR**
- Go to https://nodejs.org/dist/v$VERISON/node-v$VERSION.tar.gz (e.g. https://nodejs.org/dist/v8.9.3/node-v8.9.3.tar.gz)
- Extract `tar.gz` and then extract the internal `tar` file (7zip seems to require that you do these operations separately - if theres a better way, sound off in the comments)


### 1.2 Bootstrapping Dependencies
The following instructions are from the official [Node.js Bootstrapping Guide](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/master/tools/bootstrap/README.md) and will install the required dependencies to build Node.js with debug symbols

- Open an **elevated** PowerShell terminal:
  - Open Start menu
  - Type `powershell`
  - Right-click **Windows Powershell** and 'Run as Administrator'
- Paste the following and press `Enter`:

```powershell
Set-ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted -Force
iex ((New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString('http://boxstarter.org/bootstrapper.ps1'))
get-boxstarter -Force
Install-BoxstarterPackage https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nodejs/node/master/tools/bootstrap/windows_boxstarter -DisableReboots
```

- (Optional) Keep the Powershell console open - I did this in case the BoxStarter/Chocolately install modified the environment in some way that wasnt persistent, this may not be necessary. 

### 1.3 Building Node.js with debug symbols
- In your Powershell terminal change to the directory where your Node source was extracted e.g. `%USERPROFILE%\Downloads\node-v8.9.3`
- Run `vcbuild.bat` with the follow arguments:
  - `vcbuild.bat debug nosign x64`
- Wait... took around 10 minutes on my i7 8800k so be patient. 
- Once Node is done compiling test it with `> Debug\node -e "console.log('Hello from Node.js', process.version)"`

## 2. Rebuild your addon using your debug Node.js build

- Rebuild with `node-gyp` pointing to your debug Node.js build:
  - `node-gyp configure rebuild --debug --nodedir="%USERPROFILE%\Downloads\node-v8.9.3"` 
  - Note the `--nodedir=` argument, this is **critical** or `node-gyp` will default to the System version of Node  
  - Also, note the `--debug` flag, without this `node-gyp` will look in `"USERPROFILE%\Downloads\node-v8.9.3\Release` for `node.lib` and the Linker will throw a fatal. 
  
 ## 3. Debugging in VS2017
 - You'll need to create a Js file that utilizes your addon. It could be something as simple as:
 
 ```javascript

// example filename: addon.js
// Import your addon
const addon = require('./build/Debug/addon');
 
// Call a function exposed by your addon.
addon.myFunc();
 
 ```

 - Navgate to your **addon** directory and open the **`build\`** folder. 
 - Open `binding.sln` in VS2017
 - Ensure the Run Configuration is set to `Debug` 
 - Right click your Project in the Solution Explorer and open its **Properties**.
 - Set the **Command** field to the path to your newly built Node executable e.g. `%USERPROFILE%\Downloads\node-v8.9.3\Debug\node.exe`
 - Set the **Command Arguments** field to the filename of your addon test script e.g. `addon.js`
 - Set the **Working Directory** field to `..`
 - Click Apply and close the Property Pages.
 - Open one of your Addon's C++ files e.g. `addon.cc`
 - Set a breakpoint
 - Hit **F5** to start debugging
 - Have fun!